README.md, before:

# Create T3 App

This is a [T3 Stack](https://create.t3.gg/) project bootstrapped with `create-t3-app`.

## What's next? How do I make an app with this?

We try to keep this project as simple as possible, so you can start with just the scaffolding we set up for you, and add additional things later when they become necessary.

If you are not familiar with the different technologies used in this project, please refer to the respective docs. If you still are in the wind, please join our [Discord](https://t3.gg/discord) and ask for help.

- [Next.js](https://nextjs.org)
- [NextAuth.js](https://next-auth.js.org)
- [Prisma](https://prisma.io)
- [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com)
- [tRPC](https://trpc.io)

## Learn More

To learn more about the [T3 Stack](https://create.t3.gg/), take a look at the following resources:

- [Documentation](https://create.t3.gg/)
- [Learn the T3 Stack](https://create.t3.gg/en/faq#what-learning-resources-are-currently-available) — Check out these awesome tutorials

You can check out the [create-t3-app GitHub repository](https://github.com/t3-oss/create-t3-app) — your feedback and contributions are welcome!

## How do I deploy this?

Follow our deployment guides for [Vercel](https://create.t3.gg/en/deployment/vercel), [Netlify](https://create.t3.gg/en/deployment/netlify) and [Docker](https://create.t3.gg/en/deployment/docker) for more information.


---  

## Study Log

#### day 1  
Set up my own t3 app:
1. Create a repo named my-t3-project on github
2. Clone the project in local
3. Open the terminal under the project folder and run the command blow:
     - npx create-t3-app@latest
     - give the project a name(my-t3-app)
     - choose ts, then prisma, tailwind and trpc
     - choose yes for all the other qustions
     - cd my-t3-project
     - code . to open vscode
4. push the code to github


---

Commit message:

dev(init): initialize database by prisma and deploy to vercel

README.md, after:

# Create T3 App

This is a [T3 Stack](https://create.t3.gg/) project bootstrapped with `create-t3-app`.

## What's next? How do I make an app with this?

We try to keep this project as simple as possible, so you can start with just the scaffolding we set up for you, and add additional things later when they become necessary.

If you are not familiar with the different technologies used in this project, please refer to the respective docs. If you still are in the wind, please join our [Discord](https://t3.gg/discord) and ask for help.

- [Next.js](https://nextjs.org)
- [NextAuth.js](https://next-auth.js.org)
- [Prisma](https://prisma.io)
- [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com)
- [tRPC](https://trpc.io)

## Learn More

To learn more about the [T3 Stack](https://create.t3.gg/), take a look at the following resources:

- [Documentation](https://create.t3.gg/)
- [Learn the T3 Stack](https://create.t3.gg/en/faq#what-learning-resources-are-currently-available) — Check out these awesome tutorials

You can check out the [create-t3-app GitHub repository](https://github.com/t3-oss/create-t3-app) — your feedback and contributions are welcome!

## How do I deploy this?

Follow our deployment guides for [Vercel](https://create.t3.gg/en/deployment/vercel), [Netlify](https://create.t3.gg/en/deployment/netlify) and [Docker](https://create.t3.gg/en/deployment/docker) for more information.


---  

## Study Log

#### Day 1  
Set up my own t3 app:
1. Create a repo named my-t3-project on github
2. Clone the project in local
3. Open the terminal under the project folder and run the command blow:
     - npx create-t3-app@latest
     - give the project a name(my-t3-app)
     - choose ts, then prisma, tailwind and trpc
     - choose yes for all the other qustions
     - cd my-t3-project
     - code . to open vscode
4. push the code to github

### Day 2
Setting up github, vercel, and planetscale
 - go to vercel.com click import project, then choose the project you want to deploy, then copy the database URL line in the .env file and paste it in the space below the Environment variables, then click deploy button.
![Alt text](markdown_imgs/image.png)

 - create database in planetscale.com, replaced the DATABASE_URL content in .env file
![Alt text](markdown_imgs/image-1.png)
![Alt text](markdown_imgs/image-2.png)

 - google search planetscale prisma then go to 
https://planetscale.com/docs/prisma/prisma-quickstart 
find the code below and replaced the code in front of the model Example in schema.prisma file:
```
datasource db {
  provider = "mysql"
  url      = env("DATABASE_URL")
  relationMode = "prisma"
}

generator client {
  provider = "prisma-client-js"
}
```
 - because we don't have create anything in our database, so run 
```
npx prisma db push
npx prisma studio
```

---
